# Before Upgrading to GTS 6 from GTS 5.x.x

Please take a backup of your GTS database and configuration prior to upgrading.

GTS 6 will automatically update your database upon first user access, but your configuration
will be unchanged. With GTS 6, both language and general configuration files have been updated
to a new format. As such, these files should be reset, so the plugin can generate the new versions.

Backups should be preserved not only as a reference, but also a fallback should something go wrong!

## Additions

* Added the ability to place an item for auction
* Cross-Server functionality
    *  Allows for connection via the following methods:
        * BungeeCord/Waterfall/Velocity via plugin messaging
        * Redis Server
        * More options to be added as seen fit
    * See the [network configuration](https://github.com/NickImpact/GTS/wiki/Network-Specifications) wiki instructions
    for help setting this up 
* User stash
    * The stash now holds all expired/claimable items that involve the player in question
* Player Specific Settings
    * Upgrading from the basic concept of ignoring broadcasts, users can now toggle the following:
        * Publishing of new listings/auctions on the GTS
        * Purchases made by a player for your listing
        * Bids made by a player for your auction
        * Being outbid on an auction
* An arguably even friendlier user interface

## Changes
* Other than /gts and "/gts admin", all other commands have been removed
    * This particularly means goodbye /gts sell
    * These have been replaced in favor of an easier to use UI
* Plugin Extensions are no longer, well, plugins
    * Extensions to GTS are now installed via the configuration directory, inside the generated `extensions`
    directory.
    * This is primarily for you Pixelmon users, GTS Extensions for Reforged and Generations will
    no longer live in mods, but rather this new location.
* Listings that expire no longer return automatically
    * This was done primarily for two reasons:
        1) The plugin doesn't actively maintain listings in memory anymore
        2) It's now easier to ensure a player is receiving a particular item
* We no longer employ adapters to serialize and deserialize listings, but rather controlled JSON interpreters (safer)

## Fixes
* Ignoring publications no longer locks you into that state
* Hopefully fixed an issue where items can sometimes be lost from the data save, causing the plugin
to no longer allow accessing the UI

## Developers
6.0.0 has seen to it that the majority of the API has been rewritten. You can now access the API via
`GTSService.getInstance()`

Alongside the API updates, we have also switched to Impactor 3.x.x. This permits a new event bus system,
as well as some additional nice components.

New Events:
* BidEvent
* PurchaseListingEvent
* ExtensionLoadEvent
* PlaceholderRegistryEvent
* PingEvent
* PublishListingEvent

See the [Developer API Wiki Page](https://github.com/NickImpact/GTS/wiki/Developer-API) for further information!

## Coming in 6.1.0
Due to time constraints on release schedule, the following changes are to be expected in 6.1.0:
* Admin features
* Apparently this is all I have planned at the present moment, give me ideas!